Kristen salumi now who joins us live
from United Nations Headquarters in New
York Kristen certainly a fluid situation
at the moment has there been any
immediate reaction from the UN to this
air strike on the
hospital Russia and the United Arab
Emirates have called for an emergency
security council meeting on Wednesday
10: a.m. tomorrow uh in response to this
latest strike but we're still waiting
for a reaction from the Secretary
General uh we have asked for a response
uh and have not received it yet but I
can say that earlier today the sg's
spokesperson said that no place in Gaza
is safe anymore and civilians are paying
the price that was before the hospital
was struck and after a un school was hit
killing six people uh in response to
that the uh commissioner general for
unra which runs the school which was
serving as a shelter for hundreds if not
thousands of people uh said that it was
outrageous he said it was a flagrant
disregard for the lives of civilians uh
the UN has also pointed out that under
humanitarian law civilians and
particularly the wounded at hospitals
are supposed to be protected that is
part of the rules of War um but of
course in Gaza right now it's not just
bombs that people are worried about it's
the fact that they're running out of
water fuel and food and medicine and so
the UN has been uh very concerned about
this latest escalation uh and has been
very focused on trying to get Aid in
Kristen Russia proposed a ceasefire
resolution but the last we heard
discussions were continuing what's the
update
there right well the Russian resolution
was was voted down it didn't get enough
support uh it was a very generic call
for a ceasefire it also condemned
terrorism and condemned uh attacks on
civilians uh the United States said it
was outrageous that it didn't mention
Hamas and that any resolution from the
security Council would have to uh
include a condemnation of Hamas and The
Taking of Civilian hostages so Brazil
has been working on another resol ution
that does just that it condemns Hamas
and it calls for a humanitarian pause to
allow the UN and other Aid agencies to
get the needed supplies into Gaza and we
are waiting for that to play out we know
there's been a lot of negotiations a lot
of back and forth we were expecting a
meeting on that in the coming hour
however we have learned from two
diplomatic sources that the United
States is asked to delay that meeting
and to delay that vote given that
President Joe Biden is on his way to
Israel for consultations but we've also
heard that the 10 elected non-permanent
members of the security Council uh have
been pushing for that vote to take place
especially now that the hospital uh has
been bombed that the school has been
bombed and so forth there's clearly a a
growing sense of urgency among many
member states as well as the UN uh
relief agencies about the situation okay
we appreciate that update so much uh
that was Christen salumi outside the
United Nations Headquarters